# Juice! (Part 1)

## The most and best _firsts_ in my lifetime

_(I kinda went through this a lot longer than I expected so I decided to split this into two parts. I enabled copilot to quickly do the shortcuts and now it's predicting what I want to type here. So yeah this part is the before and arriving, 2nd part is the actual Juice and Post-Juice.)_

To quote my post

> 2 months ago, I saw a new hackathon and said, “It would be cool if I made a game and went to another country, right?”.

Hi guys! A little late writeup for Juice, but something I wanted to share even more beyond a post I made on my Instagram (for my moots) and Facebook (for my relatives and everyone else). Juice was my first time in-person event at Hack Club, and I would say my first venture into actual game development (I kinda did game development with Sprig, that was lovely). And I kinda just want to share stuff here so yea.

Thing's kinda long, here are some shortcuts:

- [Beginning](#beginning:)
- [Pre-Juicing](#pre-juicing:)
- [Juicing](#juicing:)
- [Struggles](#struggles:)
- [Starstruck](#starstruck:)
- [More Struggles Because Why Not](#more-struggles-because-why-not:)
- [JUICE!](#juice!)
- [We Juicing Now! (Kinda)](#we-juicing-now-kinda:)

## Beginning:

I just finished High Seas when I saw Juice in the announcements channel on Slack. I read the premise and went "Wow, this is cool. I've been thinking of making a game in an actual game engine and going to China sounds fun!" (or somthing like that). And so I decided to look into it! I started by watching a Godot game tutorial (trying to see if this is for me) and I felt very motivated for it. But then I went to look into the logistics of it (Documents for travelling alone, etc.) and then I saw I needed a Visa. Something I or anyone in my family has ever gotten. The whole idea of the Visa was foreign to me since all I knew is it was something special or what not. And I basically almost quit at that point. Yes, I **almost quit** because of a Visa. Nevertheless my parents told me (paraphrased from memory) "Why don't you go try it, _you never know._" And that basically reignited the motivation in me so I then decided to lock in.

## Pre-Juicing:

(All from loose memory, might be inaccurate but pieced together as best as I can)
I began Juice and logged in on the website, the whole vibe was so cool. During the beginning period I already laid out some game ideas and I ultimately picked a 3D or a more "real game engine" rendition of my Sprig game _Up, Down, Top-Down_, a 2D platformer/maze game. For context, based on the name, the game features a 2D platformer with gravity switching, hence up and down. And the latter half, top-down, references the maze part of the game where you control your player from a top-down perspective. So my lazy ahh decided what if I just improve on this idea! And I think that's actually good for my sake not having to start an idea from scratch. So after that I decided to finally begin working on my game which I will then call Prism Maze.

## Juicing:

I began with the 2D levels first, basically porting my game from Sprig to Godot. The process felt quite fine as far as I can remember. Compiling aseprite and doing pixel art felt new and fun at that period, and making new levels with the Godot Tilemap while a learning curve, was quite cool for my mind. I then got into the nitty gritty with the code and somehow made my way through it. I then decided to grow a new branch of the game and begin the interface. The first interface was quite stylized, and the main catch with Juice was **no text**. My aseprite and art skills were really put to the test, designing icons and polishing the interface to be easy to understand (kinda). _(Tangent: I'm really surprised how much pixel art for the UI I could just create back then, it feels so difficult now)_ So after that I then decided to finally work on the daunting part of the project, **3D**. So I actually was quite daunted by this part of the game, being my first time making a 3D game combined with being new to Godot. So I made up some simple blender models for the player, which is basically a triangle hence the Prism name I decided on. After this I decided to also model the base block (I think) which is what I would be using throughout the game (similar to the block sprite I used in the 2D portion). I then setup the player on a flat static body first and then tried working out the controls and camera. I settled on something and then tested it, later on I set up a simple set of blocks and tried it out. It felt really cool seeing this part, basically the beginning of a new chapter, the 3D realm. There's a lot more that happened but I'll try only keeping the main parts from here on.

## Struggles:

Now, not everything is sunshine and rainbows for me here. First, I was kinda running my motivation tank during this and I was kinda on a strict 1-2 hour per day (forgot the specifics) schedule. I calculated this from the days I have to the hours I need. On top of this, I don't really code that well in GDScript, specially at this time and I was trying my best looking at docs and getting assistance from AI _(yes scary I know)_. While these things in combination mostly worked out in the end, it kinda felt tiring from time to time, reading through the docs and trying to eliminate the red lines and warnings. On top of this was my school schedule, class ends about 5PM I think and I get home by 6 or so. This leaves me with about 6 hours at home, minus dinner and rest time (downtime is inevitable for a 10 hour school schedule). Along with this, schoolworks and **RESEARCH (until today as I'm writing it bugs me)** just slice more and more of my time. On some days I decide to skimp and then make up for it on the following day. I also had some period or scheduling where I did more hours on the weekend to make up for hours I couldn't allocate to weekdays. _100 hours from February to April is apparently very difficult who knew._ Near the end, I also faced a challenge, my research defense was slated for my trip :sob:, and I was about to prepare my plan for how to discuss this with my teacher. In the end the defense got moved to after exams (like exams morning, defense afternoon) which was the week after Juice. Wow fun. Problems didn't stop though, I kinda had to snob one other groupwork, which was also research but in our national language because why stop at one research! To be fair that one was less strict and demanding. Anyway despite these setbacks and many more, I was able to reach 100 hours!

## Starstruck:

After reaching a 100 hours, I let the cat out the bag and basically answered other people's questions of what this thing was. For reference I was making a note everday on my Messenger (standard messaging app in our country) on the amount of hours I've done since. And my classmates were curious for awhile about this. And in the end I was finally qualified for the event! So after regaining my composure, we kinda went and finalized my travel plans and then we had to book quite last minute. A little overshare, I was planning to fly Philippine Airlines to and back, but as the window closes in the flight became too expensive and my mom was talking with a travel agency for me and we decided to go with Philippine Airlines to China (not expensive) but China Easter back to the Philippines (Philippine Airlines return ticket was so expensive). On top of this, I just started working on my _"minor travelling alone"_ (MTA) documents. And then I had to apply for my Visa, the agency was handling that but going around and getting all the requirements was certainly something, and everything was falling, somewhat into place.

## More Struggles Because Why Not:

So, its about 2 or 1 week before my trip. Flights booked, Visa documents prepared and ready to be submitted, MTA application submitted. And then my MTA application was getting denied! RAAAH! The thing really wasn't made for what Hack Club was doing which was very unique, and after some time we we're able to find a contant within the government department responsible for the permit/document. For the Visa, the agency was asking for something I thought I already gave and so I just had a jumble rumble a few days, barely a week before I left submitting all the requirements. Fast-forward, 2 days before the trip. I was going home in a Jeepney (our country's common method of public transport) and then my mom called me. She told me my Visa has been accepted (YAY!) and then it was gonna be delivered back to our house since it was at the embassy. I then asked her about my Minor Travelling clearance and she said the person she knew who worked there and told me they're going to ask about it. _(A little context, my parents went on a vacation the week prior my trip and so they were not at home to do the stuffs, I actually packed my things with my mom's help before they left just for that.)_ Next day, we had a religious activity in our school at that period (Recollection) and nearing the end, we we're wrapping up the event and I think me and my friends planned a McDonald's eat for the last time before leaving and also just for fun but then I was called out the room and then I saw my brother was there to fetch me. Apparently my interview for the MTA is a bit imminent but unsure when. So I had to excuse myself (apparently there was a little after-activity gathering and light concert) but I had to go home now. So I got my phone and then left. On the way home my mom told me she was able to talk to that person working there and that they will bypass my application and go through the interview step. An hour or so passes and we finally got on a call. The staff asked a few questions and the legitimacy of this event. My dad alreay got on top of that and asked me to prepare some stuff like what is Hack Club and the stuff I already got from Hack Club. In the end we had a good chat and we sent in the additional proof we couldn't submit via the application form and hoped for the best. At night I was seriously waiting for that thing, the last thing I need to actually travel. Remind you, this is the night before I leave, I leave at 3 or 4 AM from my home to go to the airport. And there I saw it, my travel clearance! I immediately went and printed it, and then did a final check of everything I need.

## JUICE!:

So this is the night, I don't know if I even got to sleep, I think I somewhat did. I got up from bed and did my final swoop. I took a bath and a relative got me and one of my brother to the airport (my brother was there to kinda help me through). I actually accidentally left my iPad but we were not like 1km away yet so I got it and then went our way through the airport. We arrive and this is the first time I fly from this terminal so I was starstruck yet again. Me and my brother was about to go in but the security guard told us, my brother cannot go in, even if I was a minor, and that I can go do it myself. Not wanting to banter, I just decided to go fuck it and ball. I have travelled before, so I went to the travel tax desk and paid my tax, and then made it to the booking counter. Unique thing, since this terminal only (or mostly only) carries our flag carrier (Philippine Airlines), all their counters cover all their flights. So I got in line and then checked in. They asked if I paid my travel tax and then checked my luggage. After that they had to go leave and ask something, pretty sure it was the Minor Travelling Alone thing and then they came back after awhile and then escorted me to their office. Apparently I arrived too early at the airport and they would get me through immigration a little later. So this was another first new experience, I was sitting at their proxy office in the airport I guess, hearing their agents take calls about rebookings and stuff. I sat there and waited, I haven't had breakfast yet and my parents want me to get through immigration already to ensure that if I need extra stuff, we have time to do so. So I was technically allowed to go out and buy stuff, I just need to ask but my shy and honestly scared ass could not. So after some time I got my courage to ask and they told me I could go through immigration in awhile, and in a short moment a staff came to pick me up and assist me. They handed me an envelope with all my documents with a text Minor Travelling Alone (or something similar) and I really felt so giddy. So fun thing, immigration is really scary in the Philippines. It can be either one queston and go, or you could be fighting for your life out there. So I got put in the priority lane (minor and alone) and so I was nervous. It was my time and I got in front of the counter. Documents ready but not in hand, flat ish face. Handed my passport. The immigration officer asked for my MTA clearance and handed it to her. She asked next for information about the event I'm going to. I kid you not, she reads it, and goes something like "Wow! Is this actually real?" and I kinda nervously went yeah! She asked for an invitiation and I was scrambling for my life trying to find it and I couldn't :heavysob:. I grabbed a similar document about what Juice was and handed it to her, she told me "This is good enough!" and let me through. **BIGGEST RELIEF OF MY LIFE** genuinely a highlight of my trip. I got subway and waited at the gate and boarded (lol huge time skip). I was actually one of the first to board so I was standing beside the desk waiting for boarding to begin. They then assisted me to my seat, going through the business class walkway for some reason and lead me to my seat. I was seated in the extra legroom seat, with a WHOLE ROW of no other passengers. The nearest passenger was probably 5 or more rows behind me. Insane stuff. It was my first time seating in extra legroom (for the few times I've flown) and this was also my first time in this airline. So I had the time of my life and when it was landing, they got me and moved me to the Premium Economy cabin to ensure I would deboard first. Then when we landed, I was with the crew standing waiting for the door open signal and they asked me what I was doing in China, I shared them the event and they were really surprised, they gave me their appreciation and such and it really felt so heartwarming. All this work, reaping the rewards. So I headed down and they sadly could no longer assist me longer. I decided to follow the flow of people and headed to immigration. Shanghai Airport was kinda cool (the terminal and place I landed anyway), I had to take a train to go to immigration. And so I arrived, figured out the fingerprint registration and went to the line. I was so scared, the receipt I got from the fingerprint registration was blank and I was so nervous I didn't actually fall in line yet. I tried finding staff and after walking around for awhile I finally found one and asked, they said it was ok. So I finally fell in line and it was now my turn. They check my passport, my visa and then purpose for my trip. I told them something like event or something. They kinda needed clarification and then even more. I kinda already had this hunch because my Visa type wasn't exactly made for the event, the agency applied for that one for some reason, it was for conferences or something which is what they're used to I guess. Technically you can make the event fit in one of the descriptions of that Visa type. So they asked me if I could call my point of contact for my visa referal (which was AdventureX), but I never really called them and I was shitting my pants there. They decided to check my WeChat and scroll the Juice Landing group chat. They saw some Pizza Hut and was probably so confused about it. They went and called AdventureX from the number attached to the invitation and they had some talk. I hear the officer mention Pizza Hut and my mind certainly found it funny, but my body could not move at that point. After that talk they finally went and said something like "Ok, you're good to go". **Biggest relief number 2** I genuinely thought I was gonna get deported then and there. So yeah I went and made my way to the meetup (McDonald's!).
